
[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/photosearcher.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/photosearcher)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/nfox29/photosearcher/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ropensci/photosearcher?branch=master)
[![Project Status: Active â€“ The project has reached a stable, usable
state and is being actively
developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# photosearcher <a href="https://docs.ropensci.org/photosearcher"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="132" /></a>

The goal of photosearcher is to provide a repeatable methodology for
accessing the Flickr API. More information can be found on the [package
website](https://docs.ropensci.org/photosearcher/). For more information
and examples of the functions check out the [package
vignette](https://docs.ropensci.org/photosearcher/articles/photosearcher.html).

We have produced this package to help facilitate reproducible code for
answering research questions. In the PLoS journals alone there are over
180 articles with Flickr in their keywords. [Click
here](https://docs.ropensci.org/photosearcher/articles/flickr_in_research.html)
for an overview of the use of Flickr in PLoS journals. Articles using
Flickr are published in a wide range of journals for a wide range of
research fields including [biology and life
sciences](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-18007-4), [computer
and information
sciences](https://www.inderscience.com/info/inarticle.php?artid=99808),
[medicine and health
sciences](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0272494418303086)
and
[politics](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1470357218780530?casa_token=UubfU8-MbuAAAAAA%3AAQBSE3ipGOdMi33J6ISalSySECPxvmxvmgDys3-ni7Z5EuQHNGlPMhOxjq6hyfPLmo1tFEIJYCiR).

## Terms of use

This package should be used within accordance of the [Flickr API terms
of use](https://www.flickr.com/help/terms/api).

## Installation

You can install the released version of photosearcher from github with:

``` r
devtools::install_github("nfox29/photosearcher")
```

## Getting an API key

The package requires a valid API key from the [Flickr development
page](https://www.flickr.com/services/apps/create/). The first time you
call a function from the package, you will be prompted to create and
enter your API key. The API key will then be saved as
photosearcher\_key.sysdata in your working directory and is used for all
function.

## Package functions

The package currently focuses on the ability to use the Flickr API to
search for images and their metadata through the `photo_search` function
([see the flickr.photos.search
method](https://www.flickr.com/services/api/flickr.photos.search.html))
for more information. These photographs can be downloaded using
`download_images` function which saves the images as a .jpeg file.

The package also allows users to find the top tags for a given location
(`location_tags`) and the tags most commonly associated with a given tag
(`related_tags`). The Flickr website offers full [API
Documentation](https://www.flickr.com/services/api/) for all of its call
methods.

## Searching for photo metadata

In this example, we demonstrate how to search for metadata on all images
labelled with the text or keywords *rock climbing* between 2010 and 2019
in the UK and Ireland.

``` r
library(photosearcher)

rock_climbing <- photo_search(
  mindate_taken = "2010-01-01",
  maxdate_taken = "2018-01-01",
  text = "rock climbing",
  bbox = "-12.875977,49.210420,2.636719,59.977005",
  has_geo = TRUE
)  
```

When `has_geo == TRUE` only metadata about images with latitude and
longitude information will be retrieved.

These can be plotted using other packages at user preference. In the
below example, we convert these to an `sf` object and plot using
`ggplot2`.

``` r
library(sf)
rock_climbing <- st_as_sf(rock_climbing, coords = c("longitude", "latitude"))

library(ggplot2)
ggplot() +
  geom_polygon(data = map_data("world", region = c("Ireland", "UK")), 
                               aes(x=long, y = lat, group = group),
                               fill = "lightgrey") + 
  geom_sf(data = rock_climbing) + 
  theme_bw()
```

## Issues and bugs

This package requires an internet connection as well as a connection to
the Flickr API, which may not be constantly available.

If you discover a bug not associated with connection to the API that is
not already a [reported
issue](https://github.com/ropensci/photosearcher/issues), please [open a
new issue](https://github.com/ropensci/photosearcher/issues/new)
providing a reproducible example.

[![ropensci\_footer](https://ropensci.org/public_images/ropensci_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)
